README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1><code>leptos_wasi</code></h1>

  <p>
    <strong>Run your Leptos Server-Side in
    <a href="https://webassembly.org/">WebAssembly</a>
    using WASI standards.
    </strong>
  </p>
</div>

## Explainer

WebAssembly is already popular in the browser but organisations like the
[Bytecode Alliance][bc-a] are committed to providing the industry with new
standard-driven ways of running software. Specifically, they are maintaining
the [Wasmtime][wasmtime] runtime, which allows running WebAssembly out of the
browser (e.g., on a serverless platform).

Leptos is already leveraging WebAssembly in the browser and gives you tools to
build web applications with best-in-class performance.

This crate aims to go further and enable you to also leverage WebAssembly for
your [Leptos Server][leptos-server]. Specifically, it will allow you to
target the rust `wasm32-wasip2` target for the server-side while integrating
seamlessly with the Leptos Framework.

Running `cargo leptos build` will provide you with a
[WebAssembly Component][wasm-component] importing the
[`wasi:http/proxy` world][wasi-http-proxy]. This means you can serve
your server on any runtime supporting this world, for example:

```shell
wasmtime serve target/server/wasm32-wasip2/debug/your_crate.wasm -Scommon
```

[bc-a]: https://bytecodealliance.org/
[leptos-server]: https://book.leptos.dev/server/index.html
[wasmtime]: https://wasmtime.dev
[wasi-http-proxy]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-http/blob/main/proxy.md
[wasm-component]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org

## Disclaimer

This crate is **EXPERIMENTAL** and the author is not affiliated with the Bytecode
Alliance nor funded by any organisation. Consider this crate should become a
community-driven project and be battle-tested to be deemed *production-ready*.

Contributions are welcome!

## Usage

TODO: Write a template starter for the crate.

### Compatibility

This crate only works with the future **Leptos v0.7**.

## Features

* :octopus: **Async Runtime**: This crate comes with a single-threaded *async* executor
  making full use of WASIp2 [`pollable`][wasip2-pollable], so your server is not
  blocking on I/O and can benefit from Leptos' streaming [SSR Modes][leptos-ssr-modes].
* :zap: **Short-circuiting Mechanism**: Your component is smart enough to avoid
  preparing or doing any *rendering* work if the request routes to static files or
  *Server Functions*.
* :truck: **Custom Static Assets Serving**: You can write your own logic
  for serving static assets. For example, once
  [`wasi:blobstore`][wasi-blobstore] matures up, you could host your static assets
  on your favorite *Object Storage* provider and make your server fetch them
  seamlessly.

[leptos-ssr-modes]: https://book.leptos.dev/ssr/23_ssr_modes.html
[wasip2-pollable]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-io/blob/main/wit/poll.wit
[wasi-blobstore]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-blobstore

Commit message:

docs: Update README for Leptos 0.8.x compatibility
- Updated compatibility section to reflect Leptos v0.8.x support
- Added migration notes documenting key changes from 0.7.x
- Specified tested version (0.8.9) for clarity

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1><code>leptos_wasi</code></h1>

  <p>
    <strong>Run your Leptos Server-Side in
    <a href="https://webassembly.org/">WebAssembly</a>
    using WASI standards.
    </strong>
  </p>
</div>

## Explainer

WebAssembly is already popular in the browser but organisations like the
[Bytecode Alliance][bc-a] are committed to providing the industry with new
standard-driven ways of running software. Specifically, they are maintaining
the [Wasmtime][wasmtime] runtime, which allows running WebAssembly out of the
browser (e.g., on a serverless platform).

Leptos is already leveraging WebAssembly in the browser and gives you tools to
build web applications with best-in-class performance.

This crate aims to go further and enable you to also leverage WebAssembly for
your [Leptos Server][leptos-server]. Specifically, it will allow you to
target the rust `wasm32-wasip2` target for the server-side while integrating
seamlessly with the Leptos Framework.

Running `cargo leptos build` will provide you with a
[WebAssembly Component][wasm-component] importing the
[`wasi:http/proxy` world][wasi-http-proxy]. This means you can serve
your server on any runtime supporting this world, for example:

```shell
wasmtime serve target/server/wasm32-wasip2/debug/your_crate.wasm -Scommon
```

[bc-a]: https://bytecodealliance.org/
[leptos-server]: https://book.leptos.dev/server/index.html
[wasmtime]: https://wasmtime.dev
[wasi-http-proxy]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-http/blob/main/proxy.md
[wasm-component]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org

## Disclaimer

This crate is **EXPERIMENTAL** and the author is not affiliated with the Bytecode
Alliance nor funded by any organisation. Consider this crate should become a
community-driven project and be battle-tested to be deemed *production-ready*.

Contributions are welcome!

## Usage

TODO: Write a template starter for the crate.

### Compatibility

This crate works with **Leptos v0.8.x** (specifically tested with v0.8.9).

**Migration Note**: This crate has been migrated from Leptos 0.7.x to 0.8.x. The migration includes:
- Updated to use `any_spawner` crate instead of `leptos::tasks::Executor`
- Adapted to new server function API changes
- Updated SSR mode handling for new API requirements

## Features

* :octopus: **Async Runtime**: This crate comes with a single-threaded *async* executor
  making full use of WASIp2 [`pollable`][wasip2-pollable], so your server is not
  blocking on I/O and can benefit from Leptos' streaming [SSR Modes][leptos-ssr-modes].
* :zap: **Short-circuiting Mechanism**: Your component is smart enough to avoid
  preparing or doing any *rendering* work if the request routes to static files or
  *Server Functions*.
* :truck: **Custom Static Assets Serving**: You can write your own logic
  for serving static assets. For example, once
  [`wasi:blobstore`][wasi-blobstore] matures up, you could host your static assets
  on your favorite *Object Storage* provider and make your server fetch them
  seamlessly.

[leptos-ssr-modes]: https://book.leptos.dev/ssr/23_ssr_modes.html
[wasip2-pollable]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-io/blob/main/wit/poll.wit
[wasi-blobstore]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-blobstore
